# Abstract

Today, in the main publication databases, the number of indexed scientific papers is becoming bigger day after day. This phenomenon is, on one hand positive, meaning that the worldwide scientific knowledge is incrementing with new discoveries and development. But on the other hand, since these publications are hugely ingested without accurate metadata, the scientific community faces a problem of metadata sparseness. One of the important missing pieces of information are the categories (e.g. Computer Science or Arts and Humanities) which denote a publication’s field of study, since in these sources normally information about the categories are available only at the journal level. So, the technique of categorising publications with a bottom-up approach, starting from the publications themselves, instead of using the journal categories, is not easily solvable.

In this dissertation I present the developed methodology in order to identify methodologically the field of study of Arts and Humanities (AH), with the usage of an external validated authority list, i.e. ERIH PLUS (European Reference Index for the Humanities and the Social Sciences), from five main sources: WoS, Scopus, Crossref, Dimension and COCI (which is an index containing only citations, not other metadata about publications).

Starting from the resulting AH set of publications, the focus will be on detecting the boundaries of an AH’s subfield: the Digital Humanities (DH), which will be the case study of the presented methodology. The fact that the detection of the DH field will be done using the same methodology, means that also this second step will use an external list of DH journals which will be created by the effort of domain experts. In addition, because most of these journals can be multidisciplinary, information about the percentage of DH publications will be very important.

Finally, the obtained results will be evaluated on different domains. For analysing the result of DH field’s definition, the champion of selected domain experts will be taken into account in order to produce reflections on the input list of DH journals, and possible divergences on how the DH field of study is compared to the expectations. Moreover, an analysis of the differences between the open access, typically held by not-for-profit organisations, or closed databases from commercial agencies.